(THEME MUSIC PLAYING)
(NARRATOR READING)
(KION READING)
The Tree of Life.
The last moja kwa moja stone
is on the other side
of the lake.
We're almost
at the Tree of Life.
I know.
Finally.
Anga? How long will it take
to go around the lake?
ANGA:
It's pretty big.
Could take all night.
Ugh.
Then let's get going.
BUNGA: Hey Kion.
Look at this.
(TAPPING)
The lake.
It's hard.
The lake isn't "hard."
It's ice.
It's so cold,
it must have frozen over.
Yeah, well, it's "ice" enough
that we can walk on it.
Maybe all the way across.
You think it's safe?
Ah, I'm not sure. It could be.
But I think we should
test it first.
How do we do that?
Maybe like that?
This is great.
Hoo hoo ha!
C'mon out.
The ice is fine.
I think Bunga's right.
That looks like the fastest
way to go. C'mon.
Whoa.
(TAPPING)
Whoa. It's slippery.
(CHUCKLES)
And kind of fun.
ONO:
Is it? Hmm...
(SQUAWK) Whoa.
ONO: I think I'll
stick to flying.
(ICE CRACKING)
Guys? I'm not sure this
was a good idea.
(ICE CRACKING)
(GASPS) Uh-oh.
The ice is cracking!
(ICE CRACKING)
Everyone, run!
(GASPING, PANTING)
(YELPS)
Whoa.
MAKINI:
Help!
Makini.
Anga?
Can you reach her?
The wind from my wings
might tip the ice
she's standing on.
Up to us, Fuli.
Huwezi.
Almost...
(SPLASH)
(SCREAMS)
KION:
Makini.
(GRUNTS)
(ALL GRUNTING)
(SHUDDERS)
Oh, thank you, Kion.
Thank you, Fuli.
You're welcome.
Yeah.
Now, let's get off this ice.
I had a feeling
that hard water
couldn't be trusted.
(GRUNTS)
Makini? I think
I need some Tuliza.
Sure, Kion.
(GASPS)
Oh, no, my staff!
It must have slipped off
when I fell in the water.
I don't see it.
Must be under the ice.
So we don't have any Tuliza?
Sorry, Kion.
It's okay.
At least we're close to the
last moja kwa moja stone.
Right, Anga?
Yep.
Right over there.
(GASPS) Oh, no.
What is it, Ono?
I just realized.
Without Makini's staff,
we can't bring the
painting to life.
So?
So,
we can't be sure it's really
a moja kwa moja stone.
(SADLY) Oh!
But you remember
Rafiki's map,
don't you, Ono?
If this is the last
moja kwa moja stone,
then the Tree of Life
must be nearby.
Let me see.
Nawaza.
ONO: According to the map,
there's a narrow
mountain pass ahead.
And on the other side
is the Tree of Life.
Thanks, Ono.
Anga? Do you see
a pass in the
mountain?
Let's see.
Got it.
This way.
Ooh, Anga, do you see
the Tree of Life, too?
I can't see through mountains.
Everyone, let's head for
that mountain pass.
Kion? I really think
we should wait
until morning.
We don't know what's
on the other side
of that mountain.
If we wait til sunrise,
we'll be able to see better.
Fuli, I'm not gonna get
any better just waiting here.
Now c'mon.
It's okay, Fuli.
Once we get Kion
to the Tree of Life,
he'll feel better.
(SIGHS)
I sure hope so.
All right.
You heard Kion.
Let's go.
(HOOTS)
Who could that be?
Hmm.
Better to be safe
than sorry.
I'll go warn the Night Pride.
C'mon everyone.
Keep moving.
(BUZZING)
Huh?
A beehive.
A beehive means bees.
And honey, too.
Mmm.
Bunga. Don't.
Don't worry.
(GRUNTS) I'm fine.
Almost there.
Bunga. Look out.
(ROCKS RUMBLE)
BUNGA: Whoa!
Rock slide.
Everyone, scatter!
(ROCKS RUMBLING)
KION: Heyvi kabisa.
Now the whole mountain pass
is blocked.
Bunga.
Why didn't you
listen to me?
Bunga?
BUNGA: In here.
BESHTE:
Little B. You okay?
Yep, I'm good.
Kinda cozy in here.
Ugh.
And we're so close.
Shwari,  Kion.
It's okay.
Okay?
We've just blocked the only
way to the Tree of Life.
KION:
Everyone, we need to clear
these rocks. Now!
BUNGA:
And get me free?
Right?
That's right, Little B.
We could just leave him.
(ULLU HOOTING)
ULLU: Almost there.
Night Pride, together!
ULLU: (GASPS)
This wasn't here before.
Thank you, Ullu.
We'll take it from here.
Happy to help, Rani.
(ULLU HOOTING)
BUNGA:
Get me outta here!
FULI:
Stop moving.
KION:
Come on.
Ullu was right.
I don't recognize
these voices. Surak?
They're strangers
for certain.
And if they caused
the mountainside
to collapse,
they must be powerful.
Powerful could mean dangerous.
Nirmala?
They could be.
I suggest we take it slow.
Try talking to them.
Perhaps they come in peace.
KION:
Ugh. (FRUSTRATED GROWL)
Doesn't sound
like peace to me.
RANI:
Baliyo?
Where are you going?
BALIYO:
I'm takin' a look.
KION:
Let's keep going.
Once we clear these rocks,
nothing will stop us from
getting to the Tree of Life.
Nothing will stop them?
That really doesn't
sound like peace.
They're strangers.
And they sound mean.
But I'll stop them.
No, Baliyo. Wait.
Now what?
Rani?
Ugh.
He didn't leave us
with much of a choice.
RANI:
With strength and respect...
ALL:
Night Pride protect.
(GRUNTS)
BALIYO:
Lada'i!
(GASPS)
FULI:
Look out.
FULI: No.
ANGA:
Fuli. More lions.
FULI: (GASPS)
What's going on?
What do we do, Fuli?
Anga, Beshte, help me
hold off the lions.
Makini and Ono,
keep working
to get Bunga free.
MAKINI: On it.
ONO: Affirmative.
ANGA: Okay.
BESHTE: You got it, Fuli.
Twende Kiboko!
NIRMALA:
Jogina!
Anga lenga!
Nirmala, duck.
Thanks.
(GRUNTS)
Hey!
I don't know what
we did to you,
but this's gotta be
a misunderstanding.
Misunderstanding?
Is that what you
call this rock slide?
(RANI GROWLS)
(PANTING) The rock slide
was an accident. We didn't
mean to start it.
(BALIYO AND KION GRUNTING)
And your lion friend
attacking my little brother
is an accident, too?
(GROWLS)
Makini. Ono.
Get me outta here.
I gotta help fight.
We're trying. But you need
to stop squirming. You're
making more rocks fall.
Fine. Then at least
let me get a good view.
(ONO SQUAWKS)
That's better.
Whoa.
Look at that!
BUNGA:
It's like we're fighting
a Lion Guard made of lions.
FULI: Ugh.
You fight good.
But I fight even more good!
KION: Ah, oof.
(GROWLS)
I don't know who you are.
But we've come too far
to let you stop us now.
(GASPS) What?
What is that?
(KION ROARS)
Did you see that, too?
Indeed.
I've heard stories of a
lion with a powerful roar.
But not since I was a cub.
Rani? How do you
want to proceed?
(GROWLS)
Kion.
You're out of control.
Fuli.
I... Yeah.
I guess I was.
(RANI GRUNTS)
Lion, who are you?
What?
Who are you?
I'm Rani. Leader
of the Night Pride.
Night Pride?
We protect everyone
at the Tree of Life
from those who might
cause them harm.
Like you. And your roar.
I'm sorry. We're really
not a threat.
I can explain.
You may say you and your
friends mean no harm.
But actions speak
louder than words.
We're not here
to harm anyone.
Thanks. Rani,
my name's Kion.
My friends and I have been
on a very long journey.
We need to get
to the Tree of Life
to get help. I need help.
I'm sure you do.
But your roar sent
my brother flying.
I can only imagine
the damage you could do
to everyone living at
the Tree of Life.
But, I...
You, and your "friends,"
will never be welcome
at the Tree of Life.
Leave now,
and never return.
Night Pride.
Together!
I...
I can't believe it.
So, now what?
BUNGA:
Uh, maybe get me outta here?
Yeah.
Come on.
Hey, hey, Kion?
You don't have
to listen to her.
You've got the Roar.
Those lions can't stop us
from goin' to
the Tree of Life.
Bunga, just because
we can do something,
doesn't mean we should.
Really? Any time
I can eat a grub,
I do.
Fuli's right, Lil B.
We want to be welcomed
at the Tree of Life.
Not fight our way in.
We did start the rock slide
and block the pass.
Maybe the lions were
just defending their home.
Just like we would
if someone started a rock
slide in the Pride Lands.
Does this mean we're
not going to the
Tree of Life now?
No. We just need to come up
with another plan.
Right, Kion?
Kion?
Okay. For now
let's get Bunga out
of these rocks.
Hey.
Did you see me fly?
Little brother.
You're okay.
Of course, I'm okay.
And I'm not your
little brother.
I'm just younger.
Whoa.
So who were those strangers?
And what was that roar thing?
It was like something
from a legend.
It doesn't matter
who they were.
They're gone now.
But I should tell
Queen Janna what happened.
Surak? Nirmala?
Stay with Baliyo.
Make sure
he's really okay.
Of course.
We will.
You know? I always thought
flyin' would be more fun.
Come on, Baliyo.
Let's get you
something for your head.
Whoa.
Queen Janna? Grandmother?
Are you awake?
Yes, Rani.
Is everything okay?
Yes. At least,
it is now.
Come, come, my dear.
What's wrong?
A very strange group
of animals caused a rock slide
that blocked off
the mountain pass.
Oh?
Yes.
They were led by a lion
with a scar across his eye.
A scar? Hmm.
But we fought them off.
And I told them to leave
and never return.
I promise, Grandmother.
They'll never get
to the Tree of Life.
I believe you.
Well done, Rani.
(WRY LAUGH) The lion
actually had a roar
powerful enough
to send Baliyo flying.
The Roar.
It has finally returned.
(WIND HOWLING)
♪ Here
♪ Here at the end
of the trail
♪ How could I come
all this way
♪ Only just to fail
♪ Now where
Where do I go
♪ I've tried all that I know
♪ Don't think
there's any more I can do
FULI: Come on, everyone.
We can do this.
Work together.
♪ But now I think I see
♪ There's more to this
journey than me
♪ So if I have to
I'll move along
♪ In a group where I belong
♪ With my friends
♪ I know I won't be alone
we'll find a path
♪ That I can't find on my own
♪ Maybe this journey
won't end today
♪ But with my friends
it'll be okay
♪ With my friends
♪ It begins and ends
♪ With my friends ♪
Almost...there!
Hoo hoo ha!
I'm free! I'm free!
Phew, being trapped sure
works up an appetite.
(BUZZING)
Oh, yeah. Bees!
ALL: Bunga!
Oh, right.
Hey. Kion. Look.
I'm outta the rocks.
Now we can go
to the Tree of Life.
I'm glad you're out, Bunga.
But I don't think we can
go the Tree of Life.
Wha? Why not?
Because I lost control
of the Roar. Again.
Maybe the leader of the
Night Pride is right.
Maybe it's not safe to let me
go to the Tree of Life.
I'm sorry. I took you all
on this journey.
You stuck with me
through it all. And then,
when we finally get here,
I ruined everything.
Kion. We know you
didn't mean to lose
control of the Roar.
Maybe if we talk to the
Night Pride again,
we can explain everything.
Yeah.
Worth a try.
Don't worry, Kion.
Even if we can't get
to the Tree of Life,
We can find another way
to heal your scar.
And we won't give up
until we do.
You know, Ono?
You're right.
We won't give up.
Because my scar isn't the only
thing that needs healing.
So, this Roar is a good thing?
Yes. And it can
be a great thing.
What about the scar
on his eye?
Didn't you say...
We all have our scars, Rani.
Sisi ni sawa.
We're the same?
Yeah. But I'm still not sure
I totally understand
why you think...
All will be clear soon enough.
But right now I need you to go
and welcome this lion and his
friends to the Tree of Life.
Okay.
And, hurry,
before they actually
do leave for good.
Yes. Of course, Grandmother.
Thank you, Rani.
C'mon, Rani.
Let's go.
Go? Go where?
Back to the pass.
We can't just tell
those strangers to go away.
We gotta make them.
Glad you're feeling better,
Baliyo.
But the Queen was actually
excited to hear about
the strange lion's Roar.
Huh? She was?
So it was the
Roar of the Elders.
I guess so.
Which means we must welcome
the lion and his friends
to the Tree of Life.
Welcome them?
Did you see that Roar?
Cause I felt it and...
It is the power of legends.
We'll need to treat him
with care.
Treat him with care?
That Roar thing sent me flying
all the way through the pass.
We gotta go do something.
Baliyo? Let's think
before we react.
Arama karo.
Relax. Right.
(SIGHS) Sorry.
Give me a moment, too?
Of course.
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
Mom? Dad?
We're here, Rani.
How are you?
I'm okay.
But I need some advice.
Grandmother wants me
to welcome a strange
lion and his friends
to the Tree of Life. But I'm
not sure that I should.
What if I let them in
and something bad happens?
It's my job to protect
the Tree of Life.
I'm proud you take your duty
so seriously, Rani.
But the Queen is very wise.
She wouldn't ask you
to let them in
if it wasn't okay.
Listen to her, Rani.
She's preparing you
to lead more than
just the Night Pride.
Yes. One day you will be
Queen as well.
I know. You're right.
We know you'll do
the right thing, Rani.
You always do.
Thanks, Mom.
Thanks, Dad.
Of course.
You're welcome.
Keep up. We need to find them
before they've gone too far.
I still don't get why we're...
They cleared the pass.
And yet, they didn't
continue any closer
to the Tree of Life.
You're still here.
Yes. And I need
to apologize.
I'm sorry
for using my Roar.
And I understand
if you won't
allow me to enter.
But could you let my friend
Ono complete the journey
to the Tree of Life?
He wasn't part
of the earlier fight.
And his eyes need healing.
Please?
Oh. Of course,
we will welcome Ono.
Thank you.
But anyone who is willing
to put their friend's
well-being before their own
is worthy as well.
Kion. You and your friends
are all welcome
at the Tree of Life.
Oh, thank you.
By the way?
We're called
the Lion Guard.
Lion Guard?
You only got one lion.
Yeah. You get used to it.
Very well. Kion?
Lion Guard? Follow me.
Hey, Kion.
Just don't do that Roar thing
at me again. Ever.
I won't. I promise.
Lion Guard? We're here.
RANI:
Welcome to the Tree of Life.